Interprefy Agent for Microsoft Teams: Q&A

General Information & Core Functionality

Q1: What is the core purpose of Interprefy Agent for Microsoft Teams?
Interprefy Agent’s purpose is to provide high quality live translated captions and
audio for your customers using Microsoft Teams.

Q2: Why are we introducing Interprefy Agent?
The goal is to simplify the process for meeting hosts and attendees by removing
the need for virtual cable. Making real-time language support effortless without
needing complex setups.

Q3: What exactly does the Interprefy Agent do within a Teams meeting?
Interprefy Agent acts as an intelligent agent within a Teams meeting. Its primary
function is to capture the meeting's original audio and securely stream it to the
Interprefy Platform. From there, all the advanced real-time language translation
and captioning happen on our robust Interprefy backend, delivering translated
content to the audience.

Q4: Do customers still need to use virtual cable for Team meetings?
No, Interprefy Agent completely replaces the need for "Virtual Cable" for audio.
Q5: Does the host still need to enable captions if they use Interprefy Agent?
No, as soon as the Interprefy Agent service joins the Teams meeting, Interprefy
captions are turned on automatically (and turned off when everyone has left the
meeting).

Interprefy Agent Security

Q6: Will Interprefy Agent record my meeting?
No, recording of any audio will not happen unless requested as part of the sales
process and enabled by OCD.

Interprefy Agent Host Experience
Q7: How does a host enable Interprefy Agent in a meeting?
The meeting host simply needs to invite this email address to their meeting
Microsoft Teams meeting, just like inviting another person. We recommend
scheduling a meeting with at least 10 minutes notice to give time for the Agent
service to join. It may be possible to use the service with shorter notice, but
availability may be limited.

Q7a: How does the Interprefy Agent work?
The host will be allocated an email address for their meetings. Emails are
allocated at an event ID/Token level, so can be used whenever needed for
sessions which use that event ID/Token – so long as the meetings don’t overlap in
any way. It is the Event ID/Token that determines which languages will be shown
by the Agent in the Teams meeting.

Q8: What happens when the meeting starts?
The Interprefy Agent service will join automatically at the scheduled start time
and be ready to start when the meeting starts (it joins 1 minute before the
meeting start time in the calendar). When all participants have left the meeting,
Interprefy Agent will leave, and captions will stop automatically (this allows
meetings to overrun beyond their scheduled end time).

Q9: Can Interprefy Agent send messages in the Teams meeting chat?
Yes, Interprefy Agent can be helpful too! The service will send two (configurable)
messages shortly after connecting:
• Message 1 - This is the Interprefy Agent service, streaming the audio from
this meeting to the Interprefy Platform for translation.
• Message 2 - To access real-time translation, scan my profile's QR code with
your mobile device or click here: (audience link, the link can be opened on
desktop, or on a mobile device the user will have a choice of mobile web or
Interprefy app. This functionality is governed by the Event set up in EMI, and
mobile landing page must be ticked for the event).

Q10: Can audience members chat to the Interprefy Agent service?
Interprefy Agentis only there to listen, start captions, and share the audience link.

Q11: Is language switching available when using Interprefy Agent?
Yes, you can use Interprefy Agent for multiple floor languages. Auto language
switching will work, and manual language switching can be done via the Host
interface.

Q12: Can Interprefy Agent be used for ad-hoc Teams meetings?
Interprefy Agent is currently designed to support pre-scheduled meetings
(meetings booked via the Host’s calendar). If the customer would like to hold an
ad-hoc meeting, they just need to schedule it via their calendar first, invite their
Agent email address, then they can add other people once the meeting has
started.

Q13: What happens if there are issues like the service failing to join or stream
audio?
The system includes mechanisms for error handling and notifications for such
failures. Comprehensive logging and monitoring will also be in place for
debugging and performance. If you encounter any issues, please raise a Service
Desk ticket.

Q14: What does Interprefy Agent look like in a meeting?
Interprefy Agent uses advanced automation and intelligent agent technology to
attend meetings, the Agent profile image will be a QR code which can be scanned
via a mobile device camera to access translation. The service will be called
“Interprefy Agent (Unverified)”, it is classed as Unverified as that is the standard
for all non-human accounts.

Q15: What sort of Teams meetings are NOT supported?
Non-standard Teams meetings are currently unsupported. This includes:
• Webinars (where registration is required), Teams Live Events, Town Hall
Events, Teams breakout rooms

Q16: How does an attendee manage the Teams volume if listening to translation
via a browser link?
Windows users can reduce their Teams audio volume by opening the Volume
mixer on Windows and reducing the volume of the Teams application. The
Volume mixer can be accessed by right clicking on the Speaker icon in Windows
(lower right-hand side near the date and time), or by typing “mixer” in the
Windows search bar and opening Sound mixer options.
For macOS users, the volume set in Teams affects all apps and browser volume
will also be affected for the audience link. To listen to translation if using a Mac we
recommend attendees use their mobile device as a speaker. (Teams volume will
need to be turned back up after the Teams meeting ends).

Q17. What do I do if an organiser forgot to add their Agent to a meeting?
If a client has forgotten to add their Agent, they can either create a new meeting
invite and add the Agent or change the start time of the existing meeting (to at
least +10 minutes) and add the Agent. The agent will get the invite to the meeting
via the new start time in the calendar, existing participants will be able to remain
in the original meeting, and the Agent will join at the new start time.
If an Agent is removed from a meeting, and the Host wants to re-add it, this can
be done by changing the meeting start time to +5 minutes from the current time,
the Agent will rejoin based on the new start time of the meeting.

Q18: Can I add the Agent via the participants list in a live meeting?
This can’t be done as the Agent doesn’t exist as a “person” to look up in the list of
possible attendees, and an email address cannot be pasted in.

Q19: Can I attend a meeting on my mobile and listen to translation at the same
time?
This is not recommended as managing the volume of Teams on a mobile and
listening to audio from another app is challenging, the simplest solution is to open
Interprefy captions via browser or the Interprefy mobile app and to read the
translation.
Project Managers / Remote Support
How do I request an Interprefy Agent email address for an Event?
To request a new Interprefy Agent email address for an Event, please raise a
service desk ticket, please allow 2 working days for set up. Please make sure you
share the Event ID from EMI and the authorised user’s email address.
The event must already exist on EMI with the required languages for the host's
Agent to work. The Event must be a Connect Pro Event. If you don’t already have
an event/token created, you will need to create one first before submitting the SD
ticket.

Note that this process need only be carried out once: once the host has their
Agent email address, they use that for all their subsequent meetings.
If the host needs to have different kinds of meetings with different sets of
languages, they'll need one Agent email address for each kind of meeting, and so
one event will need to be created per kind of meeting.
In our systems 3 pieces of data are connected to make the Agent work.

1) The Host email: This is how we authorise the use of an Agent email, the
Host email is the only one that can invite their specific Agent to a meeting.
2) The Agent email: This is systemically generated, and is aligned to the Host
email, so we know which host can use which Agent email.
3) The Event ID: We align the Event ID from EMI to the Agent email. This is how
we know which language combination to show in each of the meetings the
Agent attends. The languages (and other services) are governed by the EMI

Event set up for that event/token.
Do I need to do anything to activate the new service?
Once you have the email address for that Event ID/Token you are good to go once
shared with the meeting Host. Please remember to select “Interprefy Agent” as the
audio source method in ISP.

A customer has mislaid their email address, where do I find it?
We store the email addresses and Event IDs in a secure table, if you need to check
an associated email address, please send an SD ticket with the user's email
address.
Can I add new languages to an Event during an event?

Yes, if a Teams meeting has started, and you want to add (or remove) a
language, you can do that in EMI, and then you must restart captions. Interprefy
Agent will continue working in the meeting and show the new language
combination once restart is complete.
What happens if a Token is restarted?

Restarting a Token will cause the translation to stop via the Interprefy Agent, in
this case the Agent will need to be rescheduled via a new meeting invite.
Can I use ARP with Agent?

We have tested using ARP with Agent and it works well if someone wants to use it
to send audio to different devices. We also testing sending some audio into the
ARP directly and that stopped captions so they must be restarted. The two can be
used at the same time but need to be careful if sending audio directly into ARP
rather than via Teams/Zoom etc.

Sales

Can I use Interprefy Agent in a customer Teams demo?

Yes absolutely, please remember to request an Interprefy Agent email address for
your demo event (if you don’t have one already) by raising an SD ticket and
supplying the Event ID.
When should I sell the Interprefy Agent solution?
Currently Interprefy Agentis available only for Microsoft Teams (We hope to make
it available for other platforms in future).

Interprefy Agent is usually used for meetings rather than events. The difference
between a meeting and an event depends on the degree of organisation. Events
are more organised, often by dedicated staff. In general, if it takes more time in
hours worked to organise than to run, it is an event.

• Interprefy Agent is normally used by clients that do not want Interprefy
support. Though we can provide support if it is required. This should be
priced into the contract
• Interprefy Agentis limited to 10 languages if using auto language switching,
and 25 languages if using manual language switching.
• Interprefy Agent can use automatic language switching. It can also use
manual language switching. The client will need to be prepared to do the
language switching themselves

If you think that you have an opportunity for Interprefy Agent for a MS Teams
based event and would like some support, please talk to Jonathan.