How to use the Zoom Language Interpretation feature with Interprefy "Inject"
For truly multilingual communications, combine Zoom with Interprefy's industry-leading technology.
By incorporating Interprefy’s live multilingual solutions, you can connect people through your regular meeting platform—without language barriers. Run more inclusive, accessible, and impactful meetings that reach wider audiences—where participants can fully collaborate while speaking their native language. 
The "Inject" integration solution for Zoom delivers multilingual capability with one-click language access for users. 


Interprefy multilingual solutions for Zoom meetings 
To create a more engaging, inclusive, and impactful experience, Interprefy enhances your Zoom meetings and webinars with real-time translation services: 
Remote Simultaneous Interpretation
Interpreters provide simultaneous interpretation from the Interprefy platform to your meeting and relay the original speech into another language, in real-time. Meeting participants simply select their preferred audio language.
Live Closed Captions & Subtitles
Participants receive real-time captions or subtitles in their selected language, allowing them to read what’s being said. Interprefy Captions provide clearer understanding for participants who are hard of hearing, joining from noisy environments, or following in their second language. 
AI speech translation
This solution allows you to add live voice translation powered by Interprefy AI to any meeting or event. This approach is very flexible as meeting organisers can add languages even at the last minute. Meeting participants simply select their preferred language and listen to live AI Speech Translation.  
Media Services
After your event, we can turn your sessions into professionally edited recordings — complete with translated audio, subtitles, and transcripts. So your content keeps working long after the live event is over.
How to use Interprefy "Inject" integration with Zoom
We stream the source audio and video from your Zoom meeting or webinar to the Interprefy platform. Where the content is translated in real-time by interpreters and/or Interprefy’s AI technology, then delivered to your meeting participants in their selected languages. 
 
Meeting attendees can access Interprefy's Remote Simultaneous Interpretation or AI Speech Translation directly within Zoom by selecting the language they want to listen to from the globe icon labeled "Interpretation" in the bottom navigation bar.


Alternatively, participants can follow live Remote Simultaneous Interpretation, AI Speech Translation, and/or Captions through the Interprefy Mobile or Web app.
To use the Interprefy Mobile App, participants simply download the Interprefy app from the app store (if not already installed), enter the event token or scan QR code provided by event organiser and select their preferred language. 
To use Interprefy Web App, participants can simply follow the link or enter the event token here provided by the event organiser and select their preferred language.
Please note, Interprefy Live Closed Captions are not included in the Inject integration solution. Meeting participants can follow captions using the Interprefy Mobile/Web app exclusively.
How Interprefy Integrates with Zoom – Walkthrough


How can meeting organisers activate the Language Interpretation feature in Zoom? 
To enable Zoom’s Language Interpretation feature, a Zoom Pro plan or higher is required. Here’s how to activate it: 
Log in to the Zoom web portal. 
Go to Settings (in the Navigation panel)  
Go to In Meeting (Advanced), locate the Language Interpretation and click on the toggle button to enable it. 
Click Schedule for your meeting or webinar – make sure you have checked the box Enable language interpretation.
Next to Meeting ID, select Generate Automatically. This setting is required for language interpretation. 
(Optional)Add the interpreter(s) email addresses. (Interpreters can also be assigned once they join your meeting)
Click Save.
For step-by-step instructions on enabling Zoom’s Language Interpretation feature, visit our guide.
Meeting Host can assign interpreters once they join the meeting. By clicking the globe icon labeled "Interpretation" in the bottom navigation bar.
If you are hosting a webinar interpreters added must also be Panelists.
Zoom Language Interpretation feature is not available for Breakout rooms.
Benefits of using Interprefy with Zoom for event organisers and participants 
Any language - No limitations in the number and selection of translated languages to offer during your Zoom meetings. 
Two-way interpretation - Allows participants to both listen and speak in their preferred language, like in Q&As. 
Relay languages - Also known as "bridge" interpreting. This is used when not all interpreters understand the source language. One interpreter listens to the source language speaker and interprets the message into a language common to all the other interpreters. These other interpreters then relay the message to their target language. 
Care-free package - Hassle-free logistics and management of translation services. 
Technical support - Technical support in setting up and monitoring translation services. 
Multilingual recording - Possibility to record your meeting or event, including the translated languages, closed captions and transcripts. 
Interprefy Agent for Zoom
Seamless audio capture for effortless multilingual meetings


What is Interprefy Agent
Interprefy Agent is our seamless solution for streaming crystal-clear audio from your Zoom meetings directly to the Interprefy platform — without the need for complex audio connections.
Its core purpose is to provide high-quality, live AI speech translation and/or captions for your Zoom meetings, ensuring an effortless experience for both hosts and attendees.

How Interprefy Agent works with Zoom
Interprefy Agent joins your Zoom meeting as a smart, automated participant to capture audio and securely stream it to Interprefy platform. The content is then translated in real-time by Interprefy’s AI technology and delivered to your meeting participants in their selected languages.
Interprefy Captions and AI Speech Translation are automatically enabled once the meeting starts.
Shortly after connecting, Interprefy Agent sends two automated messages in the meeting chat containing the Audience link ensuring meeting hosts and participants can easily access Interprefy's live AI Speech Translation and Captions.
The Audience link shared in the meeting chat can be opened via a browser or on a mobile device.
Step-by-Step guide for Hosts
Request a dedicated email for your meeting(s) – Contact your Project Manager to request a dedicated Interprefy Agent email address for your meeting(s).
Invite Interprefy Agent – When scheduling your Zoom meeting, invite the Interprefy Agent email address just like adding another participant. We recommend scheduling a meeting with at least 10 minutes notice to allow the service to join. Please make sure your Zoom account is connected to a calendar (Microsoft 365, Google, or Zoom).
Start the meeting – When the Zoom meeting begins, Interprefy Agent will join automatically.
Automatic captions – Captions will be switched on automatically once the meeting starts.
End of the meeting – When the meeting ends, Interprefy Agent will leave, and captions will be stopped automatically.
Appearance - Interprefy Agent appears as any other participant in the meeting with the camera switched off.
Chat messages – Shortly after joining, Interprefy Agent posts two messages in the meeting chat:
"This is the Interprefy Agent service, streaming the audio from this meeting to the Interprefy Platform for translation."
“To access real-time translation, scan my profile's QR code with your mobile device or click here: (audience link)”
Participants can scan Interprefy Agent's profile picture QR code to instantly access the translation services, allowing both meeting hosts and participants to easily access Interprefy's AI Speech Translation and/or Captions on their mobile device.
When scanning the QR code, participants can choose to access translation services using Interprefy Mobile App or their mobile web browser.
Please note that participants cannot send chat messages directly to Interprefy Agent.
How to manage the Zoom volume when listening to translation via a browser link or desktop app
If using the Zoom desktop App:
Windows users can reduce their Zoom audio volume by opening the Volume mixer on Windows and reducing the volume of the Zoom application. The Volume mixer can be accessed by right clicking on the Speaker icon in Windows (lower right-hand side near the date and time), or by typing “mixer” in the Windows search bar and opening Sound mixer options. 
For macOS users, the volume set in Zoom affects all apps and browser volume will also be affected for the audience link. To listen to translation if using a Mac, we recommend attendees use their mobile device as a speaker. (The Zoom volume will need to be turned back up after the Zoom meeting ends). 
If using Zoom in the browser
To manage the volume of the meeting simply right click on the Zoom meeting tab and "mute site". You can now listen to translation on the Interprefy audience link tab. To unmute, right-click the tab again and select "Unmute Site".
To mute a site on a Mac, right-click (or Control-click) on the Zoom meeting tab and select "Mute Site" from the menu that appears.
Flexibility and limitations
Here are some important points to keep in mind when planning your meeting with Interprefy Agent.
Interprefy Agent supports multiple floor languages. With both automatic or manual language switching options.
Manual language switching is managed through the Host interface on the Interprefy platform.
Calendar Connection: For the Agent to join your meeting you must have connected your Zoom account to a calendar (this can be a Microsoft 365 account, Google account, or Zoom’s own calendar). For information on connecting a calendar please visit: https://support.zoom.com/hc/en/article?id=zm_kb&sysparm_article=KB0060807
Interprefy Agent does not record the meeting audio. If you require meeting recordings or translated audio recordings for your event, please contact your project manager or sales contact.
Schedule a regular Zoom meeting: Meetings must be scheduled as standard Zoom meetings with a generated Zoom Meeting ID and passcode. Zoom Personal Meeting Rooms (PMI) are not supported.
Pre-Scheduled Meetings Only: Interprefy Agent is currently designed to support pre-scheduled meetings only. It doesn't support ad-hoc Zoom meetings.
Non-standard sessions: Zoom sessions such as Registration-required meetings & webinars and Zoom breakout rooms are not supported by Interprefy Agent.



User guide to access interpretation on Microsoft Teams using Inteprefy Inject
How to access language interpretation on Microsoft Teams meetings when using Interprefy Inject.
To access live interpretation from Interprefy during your meeting, on mobile or desktop, please follow these steps:
On your MS Teams meeting, go to the  "More" option (1)
Hover over language and speech (2)
Click language interpretation (3)
A pop up for language interpretation  will appear: 


4. Choose your preferred language from the list of available interpretation languages and click confirm. 
Interprefy Agent for Microsoft Teams
Seamless audio capture for effortless multilingual meetings

What is Interprefy Agent
Interprefy Agent is our seamless solution for streaming crystal-clear audio from your Microsoft Teams meetings directly to the Interprefy platform — without the need for complex audio connections or virtual cables.
Its core purpose is to provide high-quality, live AI speech translation and/or captions for your Microsoft Teams meetings, ensuring an effortless experience for both hosts and attendees.
How Interprefy Agent works with Microsoft Teams
Interprefy Agent joins your Microsoft Teams meeting as a smart, automated participant to capture audio and securely stream it to Interprefy platform. The content is then translated in real-time by Interprefy’s AI technology and delivered to your meeting participants in their selected languages.
Interprefy Captions and AI Speech Translation are automatically enabled once the meeting starts.
Shortly after connecting, Interprefy Agent sends two automated messages in the meeting chat containing the Audience link ensuring meeting hosts and participants can easily access Interprefy's live AI Speech Translation and Captions.
Audience link in the meeting chat can be opened via a browser or on a mobile device.

Step-by-Step guide for Hosts
Request a dedicated email for your meeting(s) – Contact your Project Manager to request a dedicated Interprefy Agent email address for your meeting(s).
Invite Interprefy Agent – When scheduling your Microsoft Teams meeting, invite the Interprefy Agent email address just like adding another participant. We recommend scheduling a meeting with at least 10 minutes notice to allow the service to join.
Start the meeting – When the Microsoft Teams meeting begins, Interprefy Agent will join automatically.
Automatic captions – Captions will be switched on automatically once the meeting starts.
End of the meeting – When all participants have left the meeting, Interprefy Agent will leave and captions will stop automatically.
Appearance - Interprefy Agent appears as any other participant in the meeting with the camera switched off.
Chat messages – Shortly after joining, Interprefy Agent posts two messages in the meeting chat:
"This is the Interprefy Agent service, streaming the audio from this meeting to the Interprefy Platform for translation."
“To access real-time translation, scan my profile's QR code with your mobile device or click here: (audience link)”
Participants can scan Interprefy Agent's profile picture QR code to instantly access the translation services, allowing both meeting hosts and participants to easily access Interprefy's AI Speech Translation and/or Captions on their mobile device.
When scanning the QR code, participants can choose to access translation services using Interprefy Mobile App or their mobile web browser.
Please note that participants cannot send chat messages directly to Interprefy Agent.
How to manage the Microsoft Teams volume when listening to translation via a browser link

To manage meeting audio while listening to translation via Interprefy web app:
Windows users can reduce their Teams audio volume by opening the Volume mixer on Windows and reducing the volume of the Teams application. The Volume mixer can be accessed by right clicking on the Speaker icon in Windows (lower right hand side near the date and time), or by typing “mixer” in the Windows search bar and opening Sound mixer options.
For the best experience using Mac, we recommend following AI Speech Translation and Captions on your mobile device by clicking the audience link on your mobile device. This allows you to keep Microsoft Teams audio active for the meeting while clearly hearing the translated stream on your phone.
You can also use the Interprefy App by typing in the Token name for that meeting which appears after "Token=" (in the link).
Mac users can also lower meeting audio in Microsoft Teams app by clicking More (in navigation bar) → Settings → Devices → Lower the speaker volume slider there.
The lowered volume will need to be turned back up after the Teams meeting ends.

Flexibility and limitations
Here are some important points to keep in mind when planning your meeting with Interprefy Agent.
Interprefy Agent supports multiple floor languages. With both automatic or manual language switching options.
Manual language switching is managed through the Host interface on the Interprefy platform.
Interprefy Agent does not record the meeting audio. If you require meeting recordings or translated audio recordings for your event, please contact your project manager or sales contact.
Pre-Scheduled Meetings Only: Interprefy Agent is currently designed to support pre-scheduled meetings only. It doesn't support ad-hoc Microsoft Teams meetings.
Non-standard meetings: Microsoft Teams sessions such as Registration-required meetings & webinars, Teams Live Events, Town Hall Events and Teams breakout rooms are not supported by Interprefy Agent.



